#   HTTP Methods
##  Forms, Data Transferring, and Routing Rules
The modern internet is user-driven; all the actual content of a website is generated by the users of a website. How does the user manage to get his or her data to the page? One word: __forms__. The HTML form is a way in which users are able to pass data to the back end of a website where data can be processed and stored. Designing forms and processing the information correctly is a huge part of what it takes to become a back-end developer.

##  HTTP Methods:
If you are not already familiar with HTTP request methods, here's a brief run-down:

*   __GET__ is used for passing insensitive information
*   __POST__ is used for passing sensitive information.
*   __PUT__ is used for passing updating whole sensitive information.
*   __PATCH__ is used for passing updating pieces of sensitive information.
*   __DELETE__ is used for passing deleting sensitive information.
  
When you create a form tag in HTML, you always need to specify the method used to send the request. The method attribute specifies the type of HTTP request by how you, as the developer, want to have your form information transferred. If your form data contains password data, credit card numbers, SSNs, etc, please use __POST__! If the information is something insensitive like a library search, it's OK to use __GET__ as your method.

## GET
When making GET requests, query parameters are sent as part of the URL. Ever noticed that when you do a Google search, your search term appears in the resulting URL? That's because it's a GET request! That wouldn't be very secure for passwords! Imagine if every time you logged into Gmail, it displayed your password at the top of the screen, right in your URL for the world to see! Worse still, __GET requests can be cached, and will even remain stored in your browser's history!__ So why do we use GET at all? Well one neat thing, GET requests can be bookmarked! This lets you bookmark routes on say Google Earth or image results on a search engine.

## POST
POST requests send data behind the scenes, inside the HTTP request body. They're never cached, they don't linger in your browser history, they can't be bookmarked, and there are __no restrictions on how much data you can send__. The vast majority of HTTP request methods you'll be dealing with will be POSTs. Forms that control user registration, user authentication, user authorization, and creating a new object to store in the database will all be processed as POST requests.

##  PUT
PUT requests work the same as POST requests; however, a PUT request is used to update a whole entity in the database.

##  PATCH
PATCH  requests work the same as POST and PUT requests; however, a PATCH requests is used to update a piece of an entity in the database.

##  DELETE
DELETE requests are often used to delete an entity from the database.

##  Special Note on HTML Forms
Native HTML forms, without the help of JavaScript, can only make GET and POST requests. A number of web frameworks allow developers to "fake" the other HTTP verbs by passing in a hidden form input. For example, the following form when submitted might be processed by the framework as a PUT request even though it is technically making a POST request.
```html
<form action="/process" method="POST">
    <input type="hidden" name="_method" value="PUT" />
    <!-- ... -->
</form><br>
```
#
## [Previous](./002_Postman.md)<span>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</span> [Next](./004_Express_Nodemon.md)
#
##  [Index](../../Index.md)