# NPM (Node Package Manager)
While Node is just a JavaScript Interpreter, it is Node Package Manager, or NPM, that makes it such a powerful development platform. Learning NPM will supercharge our Node by allowing us to bring in new tools.

## What is it?
Npm is a package manager and the default tool that comes with Node.js to manage your project dependencies.

What are dependencies? In this case, they’re just JavaScript files and libraries that give us tools to make applications with, such as a ready-made function that spins up a server with ease! __That means that npm is just a tool to fetch and prepare other chunks of code__. In the MEAN stack, we call those chunks "__modules__". Depending on what technologies you've used in the past, these "__modules__" are very similar to Ruby __gems__ and Python __libraries__, often generalized as "__middleware__".

npm can install and use modules from either a local destination on your computer or it can get them from a remote location called the [npm registry](https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/registry   ), an online home for node modules. There are thousands of NPM packages that the node community has generated. They can be found here: https://www.npmjs.com/

## Installing Packages
To demo installing libraries with npm, we'll use a super useful package called `nodemon`. Using `nodemon` instead of the `node` command in your terminal will automatically re-run your JavaScript file or project whenever you save something. That means no more manual server restarts!

This is a node module we will want to be available everywhere because we will use it on every project we create. To install nodemon globally, simply type into any command line:
```s
$ npm install -g nodemon
```
NOTE: Mac users may need to use sudo to install globally
```s
$ sudo npm install -g nodemon
```
The `-g` is what is called an option. An option is an additional specification we can use on terminal command to refine how it runs. You have seen options before with git:
```js
git commit -m  // the -m option is the message option!
```
The option we used is called the ‘global’ option. The global option run with the `npm install` command and installs the node module in question onto our machine where it can be used anywhere. __Most of the node modules we will install will NOT be global__, if you're not absolutely sure if you want it in every Node project you create, don't add it globally!